the US has carried out a second day of
military strikes on houthi Rebel Targets
in Yemen us officials say the new
targets posed a threat to shipping in
the Red Sea which has been disrupted by
houthi attacks in recent weeks houthi
leaders have vowed to retaliate
following the
attacks the aftermath of air strikes on
houthi targets the rebels said at least
five people were killed as two waves of
strikes hit 28 Targets in parts of Yemen
controlled by the Rebels the US and UK
say these strikes were acts of
self-defense the houthis are backed by
Iran they've been targeting ships in the
Red Sea for weeks with the group
releasing this footage in November of
its Fighters appearing to seize a vessel
it claims the attacks are in response to
Israel's war in Gaza against the radical
islamist Hamas organization which the US
EU and other countries have labeled a
terrorist
group a different ship though the USS
Carney launched another attack on
Saturday destroying a houthi radar
station with a missile President Biden
warned there would be more to come if
the houthis didn't leave shipping
alone we will make sure that we respond
to houth and they continue this
outrageous behavior WR with our
allies but he also said the hou's main
allies knew better than to escalate the
conflict was
IR does not want to war us at the United
Nations the US once again pointed the
finger at Teran we need to also be clear
about the role of Iran in these attacks
without Iranian support in violation of
their obligations under resolution
2216 the houthis would struggle to
effectively track and strike commercial
vessels navigating shipping lanes
through the Red Sea and the Gulf of
Aiden Iran's Ally Russia is currently
waging a war of aggression against
Ukraine but it condemned the air strikes
claiming they were against international
law there is no authorization for the
arbitrary acts that the US and its
allies are carrying out in Yemen there
is the risk of a full-fledged War not
only in Yemen but throughout the
region it's a worry shared by some
including these protesters in Seattle
but Washington once again sees air
strikes as the least bad option to keep
a conflict from
spreading Hans yakob Schindler is with
the counter extremism project in New
York I asked him whether the air strikes
would impact ai's ability to attack
ships in the Red Sea thank you so much
for having me I'm well I'm afraid this
is not going to be the end of it so what
we need to reopen really the maritime
straight the um B mandap and the Su
Canal is a sustained Maritime military
presence to make sure that the houthis
cannot Kaa and piracy um any ships
anymore and we need to deter them from
using their longrange strike
capabilities that's why the message from
the US and the UK and the International
Coalition who's already on the ground
there is both towards the houthis as
well as to Iran motivation wise the
houthis are a super anti-western
anti-semitic movement their slogan is
God is the greatest death to America
death to Israel occurs upon the Jews
Victory to Islam so we have to assume
that they are continue going to continue
to try to take advantage of the
situation of the war of Hamas against
Israel to gain favor within their
supporters within Yemen but the
capabilities that the huthis have are
stemming from Iran I this yeah well if
they're getting their weapons from Iran
is there a way then that the supply
chain can be
cut we need to be much stricter with
what Iran does in Yemen right so
everyone knows where the smug smuggling
routs go everyone knows where the supply
chains go multiple ships have been
seized therefore the straight of forus
is the Waterway here where most of the
long range capability spare parts the
hthis have the ability to assemble
Rockets they don't have the ability to
produce be parts are coming from that
needs to be much tighter controlled
right now the if the US military strikes
can't deter the group from attacking
ships in the Red Sea are there other
means um of stopping this like for
example um can there be talks uh what
other means does the International
Community
have yeah so a couple of issues here um
the deterrence is going to be twofold
number one there is going to be a
sustained military presence there's
going to be sustained strikes every time
time the houthis do something the
Americans are trying to regain the
escalation dominance here you strike one
ship we hit three targets that's the
declared aim of the United States
secondly more controls on what the
Iranians are doing in supplying the
huies in particular as the long run St
straight strike abilities go and thirdly
we need to be really serious about the
sanctions that already exist against the
houthis and their violent Behavior
inside of Yemen and that means we need
to be much better in controlling the
diversion of actual humanitarian
Resources with the houth regularly steal
regularly resell and which contributes a
major part of their income in Europe all
right now another question I really want
to put to you is that instead of
weakening the houthis could these
strikes by the US actually give the the
houthis more
leverage of course inside Yemen if
you're attacked by an outside force you
always gain some more sympathizers in
Yemen that's the whole point why the
houthi is doing this they're feeling
very comfortable with this conflict uh
as does Iran inside Yemen what Iran
doesn't want is the regional conflict
there are no Regional Friends of the
houthis outside uh the Iranian uh
Islamic Republic and just as a reminder
the Coalition that um Sai LED in Yemen
in 2015 included apart from Saudi Arabia
the United Arab Emirates Sudan Bahrain
Kuwait Qatar Egypt Jordan Morocco and
Sagal so there's really no Arab state
whose heart is bleeding for an Iranian
proxy like the houthis so we just simply
need to make sure that the Iranians
understand that they are walking
sleepwalking into a regional
confrontation with the United States
which they apparently in the last couple
of months do not want to have otherwise
they would have activated hispa a long
time ago thanks hakob hakob Schindler
senior director at the counter extremism
project thank you so
much